Here's an image that we've seen many times
before. We want this robot to do something
useful, so we're interested in where the end
effector is positioned in 3 dimensional space.
We require the robot tool moves to a particular
pose.
We've talked about how we can use inverse
kinematics to work out what are the joint
angles required in order for the robots end
effector to be at the pose we require to do
the useful task. What we haven't discussed
so far is how we control the robot so that
the joints move to the desired joint angles.
The control of any one joint of a robot arm,
typically has a structure that looks something
like this. In this diagram we can see that
there's a loop and that's a very important
part of the architecture. We're going to walk
through this system and we're going to start
with the actuator.
The actuator is the device that actually makes
the robot joint move, it's the motor. The
output of the motor is some position and we
have a mechanical transmission which connects
the output of the motor to the robot joint
itself. The mechanical transmission itself
is commonly a gearbox and in some types of robot
it might be a cable drive.
The position of the motor is monitored by
a position senor and that gives a signal that
says what is the actual position of the robot
joint motor. An input to the system is the
desired position and what we want to do is
to move the motor until the actual position
is equal to the desired position and that's
the job of the joint controller and typically
that's an embedded micro controller. It's
a piece of code running on a micro processor
that provides the appropriate commands to
the motor so that the actual position matches
the desired position.
The output of the joint controller is typically
some electronic signal. It might be a voltage
or it might be a pulse-width-modulated waveform.
This is input to the motor drive which is
a lot of power electronics which controls
the current or the voltage that's applied
to the actuator.
The most important part of this robot joint
control system is this feedback loop. It's
where we compare the actual position of the
motor with the desired position and compute
a control signal to the actuator to make those
two things equal.
In the rest of this lecture, we're going to
look at each of the individual elements in
this diagram one by one. If you're going to
get the most out of this lecture, then it's
important that you've got some necessary pre-requisites.
It will be most useful if you've completed
a first undergraduate course on control theory.
If you've done that, then you'll be familiar
with concepts such as the Laplace transform
and you'd be familiar with concepts such as
the poles of a dynamic system.
It would also be really useful if you are
familiar with some fundamentals of mechatronic
systems that is you know what is a motor,
you know what a gearbox is, you know what
an encoder is and some familiarity with the
idea of embedded controllers.